okay welcome to you not me to Thailand
sternoclavicular joint and a
sternoclavicular Joe
sign of your multiaxial saddle joint
some books share you may look into and
make sure that it's a double plain John
and just way too however the clavicle
and the manubrium and articulations are
arranged and so you have a fibrous
capsule that surrounds and the
sternoclavicular joint so you have the
stone of facet of the middle end of the
clavicle here articulates with the
clavicular facet and the curriculum
notch of the manubrium okay it's
separated by a little disk so this is
weird like I look like on the outside
and then this is a dissected dissected
version so you've got a little disk that
runs on the inside and it's separated by
two joint cavities here and so it's
obvious lined by son of your fluids so
the clavicle is lined by fibrocartilage
and then the the clavicular notches
lined by hyaline cartilage and so it
stabilized by a few ligaments and so
superiorly on the Midland the clavicle
you've got the the inter clavicular
ligament so it goes along the top here
along the jugular notch and unto the
opposite end of the clavicle and so
you've got an anterior and posterior
sternoclavicular ligament so auntie I
mean the front side and the paw stay on
the back and help stabilize joint
alongside the fibrous capsule and we got
an accessory ligament called the coastal
clavicle ligament and so it rises from
the coastal chondral cartridge and the
first in the first rib and under the
inferior aspect the clavicle it's
separated by a little bear so the best
or is it m is it for as you don't want
the bear is it's it's a capture look BAM
filled a synovial fluid and a synovial
fluid allows a lubrication to join and
allow the joint to move freely and
muscles there's muscles attached to it
too and help stabilize the function of
sterling curricula joint so anteriorly
you've got the sternocleidomastoid
muscle which attached onto the manubrium
here
so and this is the is the
sternocleidomastoid muscle so if you
look either left or right you'll notice
there's a big bulge of muscle on the
side of your neck and it allows that it
rotates the head to the contralateral
side and it types onto the manubrium
here and got the the clavicular head of
the sternocleidomastoid on to the
lateral fedley clavicle here and but the
other muscles that help stabilize it is
the stern of firewood muscle and a
stellar fired muscle which is on neck
and that inserts posteriorly to the
manubrium so you and I'll share we ought
to see it here so it touches on the back
of it on this image you can see the
sternness Turner and Caligula bed Joan
as well but without ligaments so this is
the manubrium that's the sternum and a
rib cage so you can see that there's the
joint there you know classy the disc
score and IT to see the bones there so
back to the image so we've gone through
the muscles and he got the ligaments and
so the nerves to innovate at the
anterior supra sternoclavicular nursery
anterior sternoclavicular never rises
from c3 and c4 of the cervical spine so
when I say c3 or c4 that's the Fed
vertebrae no cervical spine the fourth
vertebrae of cervical spine you also
have the nerve to the subclavian so the
most the subclavian is under the
clavicle here so sub meaning and the
clavicles a sub Clavius clavicle and
then there's the subclavian sakshi helps
stabilize the clavicle Joan stir and
movement to the pectoral girdle and
that's that function of that muscle and
so a few things that can go wrong with
the sternoclavicular joint you got a
couple of dissipations that it can occur
so if you imagine you've got a direct
force from the shoulder because the
clever quality collects with
acromioclavicular joint which i'll
explain later so if you have a direct
force that say from rugby or american
football something like that and you
have a direct force going through the
clavicle this can also be from a fall
we're going like that and so that dark
force through the clavicle can can
dislocate the clavicle anteriorly so
above the skin here but you'll see that
the
we'll stick out a sand and because of
the clavicular head of the
sternocleidomastoid and if it's
dislocated the clavicle will actually
poke up like so and so a trauma from the
front of the body so again like in in
football or you ever die trauma or
impact of a sternum here so that way and
you'll get a dislocation posteriorly to
so some important structures that are
actually in the air of the next you got
the track here and the esophagus that
you've got the lung here am so super
hassle it alone we've also got some
major blood vessels and a brachial
plexus that run from them from the root
the root nerve roots of the cervical
spine and under the clavicle under the
pet arise minor and innovates the arm
and so that that desiccation can can
maybe impinge or rupture those those
important things there so you don't want
to have that type of dislocation em so
that's the sternoclavicular joint and
just a another thing just worth pointing
out which was which I found really
interesting that people that may have
forward head posture rounded shoulders
quite common in the world today with a
seated workplace and poorly designed
exercise programs that a lot of
compression can actually occur in the
sternoclavicular joint from rounded
shoulders forward head posture so and a
lot of pain you can can occur here and
so something that needs to be corrected
with exercise and massage and things
like that and so and I cisterna cut
sternoclavicular joint